Between 2009 and 2010, when I was busting my ass to get a promotion, expand my role, and make a case for a team, I would have panic attacks driving in to work every day.It’s the feeling of tightness in your chest. The constricting of breathing, even when you keep telling your brain you can breathe. The adrenaline. The sweat under your arms, on your palms if you let it. The desire to jump out of your own skin. The will to not cry because somehow, for no reason, you feel like you might cry if you don’t barf or pass out first.My brain armed itself with all the facts of reality: I was kicking ass at work, taking on larger projects, and exceeding expectations. And yet, my anxiety overwhelmed those pesky truths, telling me in an unending loop that I was a woman and therefore at a negotiating disadvantage (if I wasn’t already doing it wrong or was not being aggressive enough). Even remembering these days, my throat feels lumpy and tight.I got migraines every Wednesday, so bad that most days I had to go home, take my ridiculously narcotic prescription medication, and lie in a fetal position till late at night when my head could bear the glare of a computer screen and I could finish work. It was my desk mate who pointed out I got them every Wednesday, my work soulmate who understood and commiserated with not just the stress we were under but also the mental health hurdles we both faced. He told me that the migraines were probably happening because, mid-week, it all got too much for my body and, every week, I broke.That job? I got the promotion. I got the team. But by the time my husband and I opened the celebratory bottle of wine I’d been saving for that day, I thought it might have started to turn.I have a Channel 2, where I relive every misstep I’ve ever made in my career: it’s the shittiest shuffled playlist in my brain. I have a Channel 4, where I make plans for the future, goals for myself, and then stop at nothing to attain them.I fired my first college counselor during my first semester because she didn’t want me to work myself so hard to graduate in 3 years — she said something about exploring and learning about myself and relaxing. Having fun, I think, was something she said, too. My response was a slightly horrified stare — and then I found a counselor who wasn’t phased I had the next three years of workload already mapped out and partnered with that person. I graduated college at 20, I was a director at 29, and I’m still absolutely certain I’m fucking it all up. This isn’t imposter syndrome, either: my rational brain understands I’m smart and driven and successful. It’s all anxiety.No one wants to talk about anxiety at work. Instead, we make jokes about being neurotic and crazy (I do, all the time — I did it this morning when I told a coworker I was an INTJ), but deep down, I really am neurotic and crazy — I just make it work for me, and work very well. No one ever knew I had panic attacks every morning while driving in to work. No one knew I’d have the promotion negotiations with my boss, sometimes for almost an hour, then huddle in a bathroom, trying to force my brain to tell my body it was not suffocating.I ran, a lot. I did yoga, a lot. I swam, a lot. These days, I bike, a lot, and I meditate, and I have pretty strict routines that I only sometimes break. They keep me balanced. They keep me in control, always, and never the anxiety. Because anxiety or not, I’m a highly motivated, very intelligent, seriously dedicated worker who has been honing her craft for almost 13 years and I’m really good at what I do. The anxiety doesn’t factor in. Anxiety doesn’t make me better or worse at what I do. Anxiety has become a partner that follows behind me. I have corralled it so that it doesn’t push me too hard or pull me back. Ever.And yet, I never talk about anxiety at work, we, as a society, never talk about it — for fear it will cast us in a bad or weak or unstable light, for shame, for the fact that anxiety begets anxiety, and anxiety is never going to get the better of me.Head of Community Engagement @Medium. East coaster with a secret SF love affair. I enjoy juxtaposing things. Also: Cheese and tiny dachshunds.We don’t talk enough about mental health.