Welcome to Medium, a place where everyone has a story to share and the best ones are delivered right to you. Every day, thousands of people turn to Medium to publish their ideas and perspectives. Leaders. Artists. Thinkers. 
              And ordinary citizens who have a story to tell. Posts range from scrutinies of world affairs to deeply personal essays. Medium sifts the 
              best of these for you and delivers them directly onto your home page. It is your daily news reimagined, straight from the people who are making and living it. Discover and
              follow your favorite writers and the stories that matter to you, every day.Medium is a free and open platform where anyone can express themselves. Our world-class
              editor makes writing simple and fun.Our easy-to-use tools make sure all your work looks great.  It’s simple to integrate 
              photos, audio, and video. And our publishing tools allow you to write once, share anywhere.Reading on Medium is not a passive experience. We’ve built simple and powerful 
              ways for you to add your voice to the conversation.This is the comment section, reinvented. At Medium, responses 
                    elevate the experience of reading together. They build on each other and spread through
                    the network just like regular posts, evolving the original idea in new and unexpected directions.Medium posts are never just static pages. You'll find highlights 
                  from other readers, showing which ideas resonated the most. And every highlight you leave 
                  changes the way others interpret the story — and maybe how the author thinks about what they wrote.See today’s highlights
          “Medium is a vibrant network of thinkers who care about the world and
          making it better —  through their craft, their stories, and their ideas.
          More than a network of thinkers, though, Medium is a network of thought.
          Connecting people together increases their knowledge and capabilities.
          Connecting ideas together increases their value, as well.
          
          Medium is not for everybody, but it’s open to everybody. It encourages
          participation and a diversity of opinion. Anyone can earn influence on
          Medium via the value of their ideas, thoughtfulness of their responses,
          or quality of their rhetoric.”
          