Welcome to English 204: The 19th Century Novel. Before we get started, I would like to make something clear: There will be no trigger warnings in my class.This university, in an attempt to protect my intellectual freedom and maintain its status as a serious institution of higher learning, has taken a bold stance against the issuing of trigger warnings, and I, for one, could not agree more. Trigger warnings only serve to shield students from the complex issues that they will inevitably face when they leave these hallowed halls and enter the “real world.” Plus they make me feel bad.Think of it: I’ve prepared a very good lesson — an excellent lesson, if I do say so myself. I’ve planned the whole flow of the lesson, the quote I’m going to start with, the spots where I’m going to pause, a couple jokes I’ll gonna tell to keep it light. And honestly, I’m already pretty nervous about it going well, and you’re telling me you want me to mess it all up with a clunky, inelegant warning right up top? No thank you. Pass.And while we’re on the subject of making sure my lessons go well, I’m just going to go ahead and let you know right now that I’m going through a pretty messy divorce, so we’ll be glossing right over any romantic relationships that come up in any of the texts we study this semester. If you want to talk about characters kissing or hugging or confessing their undying love for each other, feel free to do that outside of the classroom, but in here we’re gonna assume all the characters are just really, really good friends.Universities are places where people should share their thoughts and ideas honestly, engaging in the search for truth fearlessly without fear of retribution or attack. And while we’re on the subject of sharing, I’m giving you a heads up that anytime a dog appears in a text we’re going to refer to it as a bird. I don’t have to explain to you my methodologies and reasons, but if you must know, Charlotte (that’s my wife’s name), has taken our dog with her to her sister’s while we try to work things out (although how you’re going to “work things out” when you’re living with your sister all the way on the other side of the city without a car is honestly beyond me). I love that dog, and not a day goes by that I don’t miss him, so really it’s best for everyone for us not to dredge up any painful associations that might make it difficult for me to do my job, which is, as previously stated, to expose you to the intense, sometimes difficult truths of the human condition.Yes, I’m aware that many people argue that trigger warnings in academic institutions are integral to helping students who’ve suffered from trauma engage in difficult material, but are those same people at all concerned about the fact that I was just passed up for tenure for — wait for it — a colleague whose first name just happens to also be Charlotte? I mean, right?! I swear I could not make this shit up. Anyway, it goes without saying that we will not be reading Jane Eyre this semester.Look, if marginalized groups want so called “trigger warnings” and “safe spaces” from “microaggressions”, maybe they should try having dinner over at my sister-in-law’s house and see what I deal with on a weekly basis. Talk about microaggressions. You should see the way Janet looks at me when I ask for seconds of her (terrible) meatloaf. And yeah, maybe I have gained a couple pounds in the last few months, because maybe I’m hurting, Janet. Maybe when a person is in deep, emotional pain, they become a vessel for that pain, and for copious amounts of fried and fatty foods. Not that you would know anything about pain, Janet, what with your perfect financial manager husband and your two beautiful children. Maybe Charlotte and I would have had children if I weren’t impotent. This, of course, takes Moby Dick off the table.The point is, your college years are a chance to confront the harsh realities of the universe in a controlled environment, and seeking protection now will only make it worse when you enter the workforce, engage in adult relationships, and get into heated altercations in the Drywall aisle of Home Depot because when you came home drunk after being cut off at Finnerty’s last night you smashed a hole in your kitchen wall thinking it was, in fact, the open refrigerator, and now Charles just wants to “help you buy the appropriate materials” to “repair the hole”. Well let me ask you this, Charles: Can you repair the hole in my heart?! Can you fix that, Charles? Can you patch my shattered dreams with a little caulk and sealing wax? I didn’t think so, Charles. I didn’t think so.Nothing in life is handed to you. Life is a series of triumphs and failures, and if you think this institution is here to coddle you through the next four years, you are sorely mistaken. Also please note on the course schedule that every other Tuesday, Sam, my TA, will be teaching the class, as that is the only regular time my therapist can meet and trust me you do not want to see me when I’ve gone a month without therapy. After each therapy session, I will email Sam a list of topics I discussed with my psychologist, as well as a list of related key words and phrases. Sam will then distribute that list to you, and you will be strongly urged to avoid referencing anything on the list for a full two weeks, both in class discussion and in any written work you submit to me. Failure to do so may result in a grade penalty and also potentially in me crying in front of the whole class, and, if the reference is upsetting enough, possibly even wetting my pants.College is an exciting adventure. And part of that excitement is engaging with people who think, act, and look differently than you. What kind of an educator would I be if I offered you a “pass” to disengage with those kinds of conversations? So let us forge ahead in this journey together, unafraid of what we will encounter along the way. Unless it’s bees. I’m terrified of bees. Don’t ever mention them in this class. And you, in the black and yellow striped sweater, please take that off or go home and change. Also everyone please turn off the vibrate feature of your phones because it literally sounds like you’ve all got bees hiding in your pockets that you’re going to throw at me while I’m lecturing. Okay well, now I can’t stop thinking about bees. You know what? Let’s just end early today and reconvene on Thursday when we’ll be discussing The Awakening, a tragic novel about a stupid woman who regrets leaving her loyal husband but now it’s too late and he won’t take her back, even if she promises to bring the dog back with her, because some wounds are just too deep to heal, Charlotte. Also ignore the last line of the book because it’s not really important to the plot and it mentions bees.Please note that my office hours are Monday 2–5. If you approach the closed door and hear something that sounds like open weeping, please reschedule for another time. Thank you, and welcome to the stimulating marketplace of ideas that is higher education!I write stuff: @tnyshouts, @mcsweeneys, @reductress, @TheToast. I perform/direct stuff, mostly comedy, mostly improvised. I made some humans & it worked out.