While Hillary Clinton is currently leading in most scientifically reliable polls, and remains the only truly qualified and viable candidate for the position of President of the United States, there’s still plenty of time before Americans cast their ballots, and in the era of divisive partisan politics, pervasive social media and the 24-hour news cycle, even the smallest miscalculation or gaff can decimate a candidate in the court of public opinion. Forget her emails or the Clinton Foundation, here are the real scandals that could thwart Mrs. Clinton’s attempts at securing the Oval Office between now and November 8th:Blizzghazi: An anonymous source will leak a Snapchat story of Bill Clinton sitting alone in his car crying into a large Nerds™ Dairy Queen Blizzard™, which everyone agrees is the worst flavor of Blizzard™. Democrats will attempt to reframe the damning photos as evidence of Bill’s love for support of the American dairy farmer, while Trump will tweet: “Chubby Hubby Bill makes bad choices in frozen treats & wives. Crooked Hillary would be Nerd in Chief. Sad!” Mr. Clinton will go on a PR offensive, starring in a series of commercials for the ice cream shop/brazier in which he will eat a variety of classic Blizzard flavors, such as M&M’s™ and Reece’s Peanut Butter Cup™, while Donald Trump Jr. will tweet: “It only takes one Nerd getting stuck in your teeth to ruin your day. Now imagine your teeth are America, and that one Nerd is Hillary Clinton…and Mexicans.” The Willy Wonka Candy Company, maker of Nerds, will decline to comment.Selfiegate: Hillary’s right arm will look super skinny in an Instagram selfie taken with a supporter while on the campaign trail, when in fact her arm is not at all skinny in real life, but relatively average-sized if not slightly on the chunkier side as arms go. A cell phone camera from an unknown source present at the time the picture was taken will reveal video confirming that the apparent skinniness was achieved through a maneuver known to most women as “Skinny Arm” where one presses one’s hand against one’s hip to activate the bicep muscle, thereby reducing the girth of the arm and thinning its appearance in the photo. A Republican Super PAC will run an attack ad asking voters if they can trust a woman who lies about her arm size with the nuclear codes. Kim Kardashian will “gram a pic” in the same position with the hashtag #ImWithHerArm which will get over a million likes. Caitlin Jenner will fire back with her own arm-flattering selfie and the caption “These Guns Love Trump” which will only get 500,000 likes but will inspire a popular bumper sticker.Color War: In a town hall-style debate, Hillary will wear a blazer that is a distinctly different shade of blue than her pants, but not different enough to seem to have been a deliberate choice, sparking a twitter debate a la The Dress over whether the blazer and pants are actually the same color that simply look slightly different due to stage lighting and angle, or, as they appeared on television or a slightly different color and, additionally, possibly even two different and incompatible fabrics. Scientific American will run an article on their website about how the eye perceives color differently depending on one’s political affiliations, and Project Runway will have both Clinton and Melania Trump appear as a guest judge for a very special episode where the challenge is to create a fabulous look in at least three different shades of the same color for Mrs. Clinton to wear on Election Day. Enrique will win the challenge, but fans will agree that Bernadette was robbed and that the only reason Enrique keeps winning is that he plays it safe while Bernadette takes risks that sometimes don’t work out but are always more interesting than the basic bullshit sheath dresses Enrique keeps churning out.Winking Hillary: After Hillary’s off-the-cuff comment that she wished she could make young people “Pokemon Go to the polls!” her “youth culture” advisors have been carefully pre-vetting all of Mrs. Clinton’s speeches and statements for “mom-isms”. Unfortunately, in a candid moment on the campaign trail, the candidate will suggest to a group of teen girls that she wants to help America move together in “One Direction,” after which she will aggressively wink at the crowd and say, “Get it? Like theband?” Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani will cite the moment as further proof that Mrs. Clinton continues to suffer from seizures, while holdout Bernie supporters will transform it into a meme, the most popular version being one which reads “One Infection. Get it? Like Zika?” with the image of a winking Mrs. Clinton being bit by a mosquito. The candidate’s image will be redeemed somewhat, however, when the boys agree to get the band back together for a one-night-only fundraiser concert to fund research into finding a cure for Zika during which Mrs. Clinton will be invited on stage and serenaded with “What Makes You Beautiful” while thousands of balloons fall to the stage, much to the former Secretary of State’s utter delight.The Bachelor Botch: Secretary Clinton’s weekly The Bachelor recap blog (written under the pseudonym Valerie Eastwood) will be discovered. While some critics will hail it as an “incisive and wry analysis of the contemporary media landscape” others will worry that it reveals a misplacement of priorities. Republicans will call it “irresponsible, outrageous, and seriously lacking in multimedia content such as screenshots and gifs,” but Hillary’s campaign will attempt to spin the news as proof of Hillary’s “relatability” and “hipness”. It will be referred to by many commentators as her “Arsenio saxophone” moment (a reference that will be utterly lost on millennials) and will be credited by some as the definitive event that turned the tide of the election. In her acceptance speech delivered at 2:08 AM EST on Wednesday, November 9th a number of supporters will throw red roses onto the stage which will be immediately confiscated and incinerated by secret service but will inspire the following day’s New York Post headline “Hillary Accepts Nation’s Rose”. In the final and decisive blow to her opponent’s out-sized ego, ratings for the upcoming season of The Bachelor will reach record highs, beating out The Apprentice for the twelfth straight year.I write stuff: @tnyshouts, @mcsweeneys, @reductress, @TheToast. I perform/direct stuff, mostly comedy, mostly improvised. I made some humans & it worked out.