Welcome!This is a library for the misfits.Great books that you probably haven’t heard of.Authors who haven’t received the recognition they deserve.And writers with unpopular, but paradigm shifting ideas.King Moonracer would be proud!If the book you recommend ends up being added to this library you will receive credit for it below the book description, ie; “Thanks to _______ of www._______ for recommending this book”. Remember to leave your website address with your recommendation in the comment section (No website? Your Medium profile will be hyper-linked).If you are an author you can recommend your own book if you think it belongs here.Books are in reverse-alphabetical order by author sir name. Genres are mixed together.If you decide to buy some of these books please consider doing so by clicking on the titles below. If you decide to buy at a later date, please remember to come back and use the links below. Your purchases will help support the Personal Growth publication.Hopefully you’ll find a few gems!A series of essays representing philosopher Alan Watts’s most recent thinking on the astonishing problems of man’s relations to his material environment. The basic theme is that civilized man confuses symbol with reality, his ways of describing and measuring the world with the world itself, and thus puts himself into the absurd situation of preferring money to wealth and eating the menu instead of the dinner.This book is full of wisdom drawn from the major sacred Scriptures of the world and various schools of philosophical thought, as well as from scientists, artists, historians, and others. Its aim is to assist people of all ages to learn more about the universal truths of life that transcend modern times or particular cultures.Michael A. Singer tells the extraordinary story of what happened when, after a deep spiritual awakening, he decided to let go of his personal preferences and simply let life call the shots. As Singer takes you on this great experiment and journey into life’s perfection, the events that transpire will both challenge your deepest assumptions about life and inspire you to look at your own life in a radically different way.Dr. Rupert Sheldrake shows the ways in which science is being constricted by assumptions that have, over the years, hardened into dogmas. Such dogmas are not only limiting, but dangerous for the future of humanity. Sheldrake turns the ten fundamental dogmas of materialism into exciting questions, and shows how all of them open up startling new possibilities for discovery.He lost his leg to cancer at 19, but said “nobody is ever going to call me a quitter.” Terry Fox set out from St. John’s, Newfoundland to begin the run across Canada on one good leg and one prosthetic leg. His ambition was to raise a million dollars for cancer research. It wasn’t easy. When cancer finally claimed his life, Canada mourned the loss of a hero. More than $600 million dollars has been raised in his name.Barry Schwartz and Kenneth Sharpe explore the insights essential to leading satisfying lives. Encouraging individuals to focus on their own personal intelligence and integrity rather than simply navigating the rules and incentives established by others, Practical Wisdom outlines how to identify and cultivate our own innate wisdom in our daily lives.Combining cutting-edge research with a healthy dose of good humor and practical advice, Why Zebras Don’t Get Ulcers explains how prolonged stress causes or intensifies a range of physical and mental afflictions, including depression, ulcers, colitis, heart disease, and more. It also provides essential guidance to controlling our stress responses.A world traveler and legendary investor Jim Rogers shares a heartfelt, indispensable guide for his daughters (and all young investors) to find success and happiness. Rogers offers advice with his trademark candor and confidence, but this time he adds paternal compassion, protectiveness, and love. Rogers reveals how to learn from his triumphs and mistakes in order to achieve a prosperous, well-lived life.This book addresses the complex interrelationship between civil resistance and other dimensions of power. It explores the question of whether civil resistance should be seen as potentially replacing violence completely, or as a phenomenon that operates in conjunction with, and modification of, power politics.In a bold and provocative interpretation of economic history, Matt Ridley makes the case for an economics of hope, arguing that the benefits of commerce, technology, innovation, and change will inevitably increase human prosperity.Trying to be the best will chain you to others’ definition of success. Unmistakable work, on the other hand, could only have been created by one person, so competition is irrelevant. Whether you’re a business owner, an artist, or just someone who wants to leave your mark on the world, Unmistakable will inspire you to create your own path and define your own success.Drawing on interviews with seven hundred long-married elders, 30 Lessons for Loving delivers timeless wisdom from a wide range of voices on everything from choosing “the one” to dealing with in-laws, money, children, and, yes, sex. Whether readers are searching for the right partner or working to keep the spark alive, 30 Lessons for Loving illuminates the path to lifelong, fulfilling relationships.After a chance encounter with a remarkable ninety-year-old woman, gerontologist Karl Pillemer decided to find out what older people know about life that the rest of us don’t. His quest led him to speak with a thousand Americans over the age of sixty-five. To learn how to live without regret, persevere through hard times, find fulfillment, and age fearlessly and well, there is no one better to ask than the people who have done it themselves.A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Future: Twists and Turns and Lessons LearnedHarry Patch, the last British soldier alive to have fought in the trenches of the First World War, is now 108 years old and one of very few people who can directly recall the horror of that conflict. In vivid detail he describes daily life in the trenches, the terror of being under intense artillery fire, and the fear of going over the top. The Last Fighting Tommy is the story of an ordinary man’s extraordinary life.Amanda Palmer knows all about asking. When she left her record label she asked her fans to support her in making an album, leading to the world’s most successful music Kickstarter. Part manifesto, part revelation, this is the story of an artist struggling with the new rules of exchange in the twenty-first century. This book will inspire readers to rethink their own ideas about asking, giving, art, and love.Terrorism has been used for many decades, yet even including 9/11, the odds of an American being killed by international terrorism are microscopic. In general, international terrorism doesn’t do much damage when considered in almost any reasonable context. It’s time to stop playing into the terrorists’ hands.Using the letters Buffett wrote to his partners between 1956 and 1970, a veteran financial adviser presents the guru’s “ground rules” for investing — guidelines that remain startlingly relevant today, though ignored by most investors. The letters offer accessible lessons in control and discipline — effective in bull and bear markets alike, and in all types of investing climates.No More Mondays will show you that meaningful work really is within your grasp. And once you’ve opened the door and seen all the exciting career opportunities that await you — whether you decide to revolutionize your current job or launch a new career altogether — you’ll find you can’t go back to the old way of working.The characters are not human, but they represent human nature. Through the little onion’s adventures, we revisit issues we have had in the past. Often they are still with us. We devote so much effort to “looking good” and “fitting in” that sometimes we lose sight of who we really are. There’s a way to cut through all that and live the life we really want. Perhaps the answer has been within you all along.Thomas Merton composed a series of his own versions of the classic sayings of Chuang Tzu. Chuang Tzu, who wrote in the fourth and third centuries B.C., is the chief authentic historical spokesperson for Taoism and its founder Lao Tzu (a legendary character known largely through Chuang Tzu’s writings). It was because of Chuang Tzu and the other Taoist sages that Indian Buddhism was transformed, in China, into the unique vehicle we now call by its Japanese name―Zen.This book tells of the growing restlessness of a brilliant and passionate young man whose search for peace and faith leads him, at the age of twenty-six, to take vows in one of the most demanding Catholic orders — the Trappist monks. Thomas Merton struggles to withdraw from the world, but only after he has fully immersed himself in it.Leave behind the “manic-depressive” Christian walk. No more running around trying to perform to be acceptable to God. Living the grace walk gets Christians off this religious roller coaster. This book will help you come to know “Amazing Grace” as not just a song but as a true way of life.Investigative journalist Lynne McTaggart reveals a radical new paradigm — that the human mind and body are not separate from their environment and that consciousness may be central in shaping our world. A highly readable scientific detective story presenting a stunning picture of an interconnected universe and a new scientific theory. Documented by distinguished sources.What if changing how you think about stress could make you happier, healthier, and better able to reach your goals? Combining exciting new research on resilience and mindset, Kelly McGonigal, PhD, proves that stress is not bad for you; it is undergoing stress while believing that stress is bad for you that makes it harmful. (Thanks to Rohan Williams of www.rohanmwilliams.com for recommending this book)High-powered executive Steven Kerner is living the dream. But when his bottled pain ignites in anger one night, his wife kicks him out. Then an eccentric mystery man befriends Steven and begins unravelling his tightly wound world. Those who desire a fuller, more authentic way of living will find this journey of healing a restorative exploration of God’s unbridled grace.An in-depth study of the human condition within modern culture. Psychotherapist Alexander Lowen shows that stress,tension, anxiety and neurotic behavior stem from a fear of life. Lowen explains that being a person requires that one stop their frantic doing and take time out to breathe and to feel.From the greatest modern martial artist of all time, this book is a compilation of proverbs coined by Bruce Lee himself. Touching on martial arts, the universe and life in general, this collection defines the concepts behind both a warrior and a martial artist. Ideal for fans and philosophers alike, this compendium is an attractive, elegant and compact guide to the insight of a legend.The 21st century is predicted to be the Century of Biology, a shift from the previous century dominated by physics. It seems fitting, then, to begin the century by turning the universe outside-in and unifying the foundations of science with a simple idea discovered by one of the leading life-scientists of our age. Biocentrism awakens in readers a new sense of possibility, and is full of so many shocking new perspectives that the reader will never see reality the same way again.An entertaining coffee table book containing the wise words of one of the all-time great investors. The book contains a lot of illustrations, as well as commentary about numerous historical figures. Munger is a pro-proponent of multidisciplinary learning and the acquisition of various “mental models” to better understand the world and avoid “sin and folly”.One basic need all children have, Alfie Kohn argues, is to be loved unconditionally, to know that they will be accepted even if they screw up or fall short. Yet conventional approaches to parenting such as punishments, rewards, teach children they are loved only when they please us or impress us. Kohn cites a body of powerful, and largely unknown, research detailing the damage caused by leading children to believe they must earn our approval.This book analyzes what religion says about God’s heart and personality and measures it up to what God calls Himself: Love. It simplifies a generation’s tangled perceptions of God by taking a journey through the sixteen aspects of love described in one of the most well-known Bible passages in the world: 1 Corinthians 13, also known as “the love chapter.”The iconoclastic CEO of Zappos shows how a different kind of corporate culture can make a huge difference in achieving remarkable results — by actually creating a culture that values happiness — and then delivers on it. Zappos debuted as the highest-ranking newcomer in Fortune magazine’s “Best Companies to Work For” list and was acquired by Amazon for over $1.2 billion.General Rick Hillier’s views on leadership evolved over three decades as a soldier. Early in his career he watched as many of his superiors made bad decisions. For Hillier, leadership is all about people — embracing those you are in charge of and winning over those you need to work with. Leadership is an inspirational, easy-to-read and often humorous collection of fifty principles that will challenge the way you run your business, start a project or take that next step in life.A knight, fearing he may not return from battle, writes a letter to his children. In a series of ruminations on solitude, humility, forgiveness, honesty, courage, grace, pride, and patience, he draws on the ancient teachings of Eastern and Western philosophy, and on the great spiritual and political writings. His intent: to give his children a compass for a journey they will have to make alone, a short guide to what gives life meaning and beauty.For millions of years, humans have been seeking out tribes, be they religious, ethnic, economic, political, or even musical. Now the Internet has eliminated the barriers of geography, cost, and time. All those blogs and social networking sites are helping existing tribes get bigger. But more important, they’re enabling countless new tribes to be born. And so the key question: Who is going to lead us?The Island of Knowledge offers a highly original exploration of the ideas of some of the greatest thinkers in history, from Plato to Einstein, and how they affect us today. An authoritative, broad-ranging intellectual history of our search for knowledge and meaning, The Island of Knowledge is a unique view of what it means to be human in a universe filled with mystery.While many people have problems with the church, the person of Jesus is an indispensable force in the achievement of authentic spirituality. This book takes as its starting point a question that Jesus himself asked his disciples, ‘Who do you say I am?’ Laurence Freeman explores this question in the light of some of the big issues of religious understanding.Michael J. Fox abandoned high school to pursue an acting career, but went on to receive honorary degrees from several universities and garner the highest accolades for his acting, as well as for his writing. In this book, he inspires and motivates graduates to recognize opportunities, maximize their abilities, and roll with the punches — all with his trademark optimism, warmth, and humor.Have you ever considered the apparent injustices, inconsistencies, and even contradictions of the doctrine of hell? For starters, do earthly parents love their children more than God? Does God ask you to forgive your enemies when He is not willing to do the same? Raising Hell will open your eyes to a radical view of God’s loving purpose for all humanity and what the “Good News” is really about.With this book, you will learn how to build and maintain strong trusting relationships with others, and repair trust when it is broken, by being intentional and consistent in your language and actions. Understanding and consistently demonstrating trustworthy language and behavior will help you earn and keep the trust of the people you work with.This book shows you your own secret weapon. It’s that thing you keep hiding from everyone. Paula uses her Tourette Syndrome to illustrate how potentially embarrassing situations have become cherished memories and golden opportunities. The freedom that comes from embracing and using your differences is both liberating and validating. Let the discovery of your true self take you to new places.If the conscious mind — the part you consider to be you — is just the tip of the iceberg, what is the rest doing? In this provocative book, neuroscientist David Eagleman navigates the depths of the subconscious brain to illuminate its surprising mysteries. Incognito is a subsurface exploration of the mind and all its contradictions.In Freeman Dyson’s view, science and religion are two windows through which we can look out at the world around us. The book is a revised version of a series of the Gifford Lectures under the title “In Praise of Diversity” given at Aberdeen, Scotland. They allowed Dyson the license to express everything in the universe, which he divided into two parts: focusing on the diversity of the natural world, and the diversity of human reactions.Until recently, the effortless “Zone” of peak performance was only within the reach of serious athletes. Now, with Body, Mind, and Sport, anyone can reach the Zone, regardless of fitness level. John Douillard outlines a program in which your individual seasonal constitution-Winter, Spring, or Summer-determines what exercises or sports are best suited to your mind-body type and what foods you should eat for optimum results.A daily inspirational guide of simple and creative challenges to help you actively spread love to those around you. Each week begins with an inspirational message written by members of the TinyBuddha.com online community, followed by seven days of short challenges that focus on self-love, giving and receiving love in relationships and friendships, and spreading love in the world.A collaboration between one of the youngest professors in the U.K and a distinguished physicist, Why Does E=mc2? is one of the most accessible explanations of the theory of relativity. Explaining and simplifying notions of energy, mass, and light — while exploding commonly held misconceptions — they demonstrate how the structure of nature itself is contained within this equation.An adaptation of Dale Carnegie’s timeless prescriptions for the digital age. Rebooted to tame the complexities of modern times and teach you how to communicate with diplomacy and tact, capitalize on a solid network, make people like you, project your message widely and clearly, be a more effective leader, increase your ability to get things done, and optimize the power of digital tools.An illuminating spiritual adventure, a tenacious quest for a vibrant but reasoned faith in God. Michael Camp’s deepening doubts propelled him to uncover nine “heretical” revelations that turn evangelical theology on its head. This brutally honest personal pilgrimage will both challenge and encourage readers to rethink all things sacred and embrace a faith full of grace and reason.What if loneliness is not something to be defeated, but an incredible source of power and inspiration? What if that vision you have nobody else can see is the very thing which will set you apart from the rest of the world? What if what makes you weird also makes you unique?A book about the practical use of long time perspective: how to get it, how to use it, how to keep it in and out of sight. How do we make long-term thinking automatic and common instead of difficult and rare? A potent book that combines the chronicling of fantastic technology with equally visionary philosophical inquiry. (Thanks to James Zhang for recommending this book)A history of scientific and social progress. The story of how mankind has come to know the world. Historian Daniel Boorstin shows how creative thinkers and adventurous souls were helped and held back by political, religious and cultural forces and how their ideas changed the world.Get away from doing and into being with this lively, down-to-earth guide to your own meditation retreat by mindfulness meditation teacher Sylvia Boorstein. She offers a three-day retreat plan accompanied by timeless lessons — always grounded in real life — on how anyone can achieve calm, clarity and joy through meditation practices.Children add joy, purpose, and meaning to our lives. They provide optimism, hope, and love. They bring smiles, laughter, and energy into our homes. They also add clutter. As parents, balancing life and managing clutter may appear impossible — or at the very least, never-ending. But what if there was a better way to live? Clutterfree with Kids offers a new perspective and fresh approach to overcoming clutter.Essential Zen Habits shares a method and a six-week program for changing a habit, and outlines steps needed to quit bad habits, deal with life struggles, and find mindfulness. All in a very brief format of “just do this” instructions, no fluff whatsoever.A year and a half after he graduated from college, Sean Aiken found himself struggling to answer the question “What should I do with my life?” His father said, “It doesn’t matter what you do, just make sure it’s something you’re passionate about.” Taking his father’s advice to heart, Sean launched himself on an epic journey to find his passion. His goal: to work fifty-two jobs in fifty-two weeks.Writing mostly to myself. Sharing some of it with you. Hope it helps.Keep Learning. Keep Growing.